# Class 201 - 14 - CSS Transforms, Transitions & Animations

## Readings

### CSS Transforms

[CSS Transforms](https://learn.shayhowe.com/advanced-html-css/css-transforms/)

1. What does a CSS transform allow the developer to do to an element?  

With CSS3 came new ways to size, position, and change elements. All of these new techniques are made possible by the transform property.

2. Provide an example of a transform and how you could see that being used on a website.  

```html
<figure class="box-1">Box 1</figure>
<figure class="box-2">Box 2</figure>
```

```css
.box-1 {
  transform: rotate(20deg);
}
.box-2 {
  transform: rotate(-55deg);
}
```

### CSS Transitions & Animations

[CSS Transitions & Animations](https://learn.shayhowe.com/advanced-html-css/transitions-animations/)

1. What does a CSS transition allow the developer to do to an element?  

With CSS3 transitions you have the potential to alter the appearance and behavior of an element whenever a state change occurs, such as when it is hovered over, focused on, active, or targeted.

2. How does a CSS animation differ from a CSS transition?  

Animations within CSS3 allow the appearance and behavior of an element to be altered in multiple keyframes. Transitions provide a change from one state to another, while animations can set multiple points of transition upon different keyframes.

### 8 simple CSS3 transitions that will wow your users

[8 simple CSS3 transitions that will wow your users](https://www.webdesignerdepot.com/2014/05/8-simple-css3-transitions-that-will-wow-your-users)

1. What are some benefits to using CSS transitions on websites?  

CSS3 has introduced countless possibilities for UX designers, and the best thing about them is that the coolest parts are really simple to implement. Just a couple of lines of code will give you an awesome transition effect that will excite your users, increase engagement and ultimately, when used well, increase your conversions.

2. How this topic fit in with your long-term goals?  

These tools give me the ability to create a better user experience in my website designs.

## Things I want to know more about

Learn more techniques to animate elements on a website.

## Lab

[Template Lab: Class 14](https://github.com/codefellows/201-lab-14)

## Read: Class 14: Psychological Safety

[What Google Learned From Its Quest to Build the Perfect Team](https://web.archive.org/web/20221125192300/https://www.nytimes.com/2016/02/28/magazine/what-google-learned-from-its-quest-to-build-the-perfect-team.html)

**NOTE:** ‘I want to be part of a community, part of something people are building together’

1. What are three key factors that contribute to psychologically safe teams?  

Psychological safety is a sense of confidence that the team will **not embarrass, reject or punish someone for speaking up**.  

2. Evaluate, with details, a previous professional setting (or team) you were in with regards to psychological safety.  

I have a lot of experience working with people, and the best way to deal with this is by establishing psychological safety rules. The behaviors that create psychological safety — conversational turn-taking and empathy — are part of the same unwritten rules we often turn to, as individuals, when we need to establish a bond.  

3. What impact do teams that operate with a high degree of psychological safety have on their company and the team members?  

Companies with a high degree of psychological security tend to be more successful, because in a friendly environment, team members work together to achieve company goals.
