# Class 201 - 12- Chart.js, Canvas

## Lab 12: Odd Duck Products

[REPO](https://github.com/VMO2020/odd-duck)

[WEB Link](https://vmo2020.github.io/odd-duck/)

## Readings: Chart.js, Canvas

[JavaScript Canvas](https://www.javascripttutorial.net/web-apis/javascript-canvas/)

[Chart.js](https://www.chartjs.org/docs/latest/)  

[Animate Chart](https://www.webdesignerdepot.com/2013/11/easily-create-stunning-animated-charts-with-chart-js/)  

### JavaScript Canvas

1. What does the `<canvas>` allow a developer to achieve?  
HTML5 features the `<canvas>` element that allows you to draw 2D graphics using JavaScript.

2. What is the importance of the closing `</canvas>` tag?  

The `<canvas>` element requires the closing tag `</canvas>`. Any content between the opening and closing tags is fallback content that will display only if the browser doesn’t support the `<canvas>` element.  

When using the `<canvas>` element, it’s important to check if the browser supports the getContext() method. To do it, you use the following code:

```js
let canvas = document.querySelector('#main');
if(canvas.getContext) {
   let ctx = main.getContext('2d');
}
```

3. Explain what the getContext() method does.  

The getContext() takes one argument which is the type of context. For example, you use the "2d" to get a 2D rendering context object, which is an instance of the CanvasRenderingContext2D interface.  

The 2D rendering context allows you to draw shapes, text, images, and other objects.

The following example shows how to select the canvas element using the querySelector() method and access the drawing context by calling its getContext() method:

```js
let canvas = document.querySelector('#canvas');
let ctx = main.getContext('2d');
```

### Chart.js Documentation

1. What is Chart.js and how it can be brought into your project?  

Chart.js is currently the most popular charting libraries for JavaScript application developers.  

Chart.js provides a set of frequently used chart types, plugins, and customization options. In addition to a reasonable set of built-in chart types, you can use additional community-maintained chart types .

Chart.js comes with built-in TypeScript typings and is compatible with all popular JavaScript frameworks including React , Vue , Svelte , and Angular . You can use Chart.js directly or leverage well-maintained wrapper packages that allow for a more native integration with your frameworks of choice.  

2. List 3 different Chart types you can create using Chart.js.  

. Bar Chart
. Line Chart
. Pie Chart
. Polar Area Chart  

### Easily Create Stunning Animated Charts with Chart.js  

1. What are some advantages to displaying data via a chart over a table?  

Charts are far better for displaying data visually than tables and have the added benefit that no one is ever going to press-gang them into use as a layout tool. They’re easier to look at and convey data quickly, but they’re not always easy to create.  

2. How could Chart.js aid your previously created applications visually?  

Charts are much better at displaying data visually than tables and you can create stunning animated charts with Chart.js.  

## Learning Journal: 12

The way and the time to learn varies a lot between different things. Some things are easy and others are difficult. My way of dealing with difficult things is to break them down into smaller parts so that I can simplify the process of learning something new.
