# Class 201 - 08 - CSS Layout - Flexbox

### Readings

[Learn CSS - Flexbox](https://web.dev/learn/css/flexbox/)  

1. Flexbox is designed for one-dimensional content. Explain what this means.  
Being one-dimensional, it only deals with layout in a single direction - columns or rows - at a time.

2. Explain the difference between the main axis and cross axis.  
The main axis is defined by the flex-direction property, and the cross axis runs perpendicular to it.

3. How can using certain properties of flexbox negatively impact accessibility.  
A design pattern that can be tricky in responsive design is a sidebar that sits inline with some content. Where there is viewport space, this pattern works great, but where space is condensed, that rigid layout can become problematic.

[CSS layout Flexbox](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/CSS_layout/Flexbox)  

1. What are some advantages of using flexbox over float?  
For a long time, the only reliable cross-browser compatible tools available for creating CSS layouts were features like floats and positioning. These work, but in some ways they're also limiting and frustrating.  

The following simple layout designs are either difficult or impossible to achieve with such tools in any kind of convenient, flexible way:  

- Vertically centering a block of content inside its parent.  
- Making all the children of a container take up an equal amount of the available width/height, regardless of how much width/height is available.  
- Making all columns in a multiple-column layout adopt the same height even if they contain a different amount of content.  
- As you'll see in subsequent sections, flexbox makes a lot of layout tasks much easier. Let's dig in!  

2. How does this topic connect with your long term goals?  
It is a great tool to style your HTML code.

[layout](https://web.dev/learn/css/layout/)

## Things I want to know more about

Use display: grid

### Class

```css
/* Variables */
:root {
    --main-color: lightblue;
    --main-fc-color: black;
    --main-bg-color: white;
    --wht: white;
    --dblue: darkblue;
    --alert: red;
}

/* General */
* {
    box-sizing: border-box;
}

body {
    min-width: 320px;
    max-width: 1024px;
}

/* Fonts */
h1 {
     color: var(--main-fc-color);
 text-align: center;
 font-size: clamp(1.8rem, 5vw, 3rem);
 font-weight: 700;
 margin-top: 1.8rem;
}

/* Images */
.img-hero {
 width: 100%;
 margin: 2rem auto;
}

/* Buttons & Links */
a {
 display: inline-block;
 text-decoration: none;
 color: inherit;
}

/* Layout */
.container {
    color: var(--main-color);
    background-color: var(--main-bg-color);
}

.section-container {
    display: flex;
    flex-direction: row; /* default */
    /* flex-direction: column;  */
    justify-content: space-between; /* horizontal - direction: row */
    flex-wrap: wrap;
    align-items: center; /* vertical - direction: row */
}

/* Media Queries */
```
