# Class 201 - 02 Introduction To Web Development

### Read and source for answers

[HTML_text_fundamentals](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/HTML/Introduction_to_HTML/HTML_text_fundamentals)

[Advanced_text_formatting](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/HTML/Introduction_to_HTML/Advanced_text_formatting)

[How_CSS_is_structured](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/First_steps/How_CSS_is_structured)

[css_specificity](https://www.w3schools.com/css/css_specificity.asp)

[JavaScript_basics](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Getting_started_with_the_web/JavaScript_basics)

[Building_blocks/conditionals](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/Building_blocks/conditionals)

[git-commit](https://cbea.ms/git-commit/)

### Chris repository

[Chris repository](https://github.com/CSEAMAN3/rumble)

### Introduction to HTML

- Why is it important to use semantic elements in our HTML?  
Semantics are relied on everywhere around us—we rely on previous experience to tell us what the function of an everyday object is; when we see something, we know what its function will be. So, for example, we expect a red traffic light to mean "stop," and a green traffic light to mean "go." Things can get tricky very quickly if the wrong semantics are applied. (Do any countries use red to mean "go"? We hope not.)  

- How many levels of headings are there in HTML?  
There are six heading elements: h1, h2, h3, h4, h5, and h6. Each element represents a different level of content in the document; `<h1>` represents the main heading, `<h2>` represents subheadings, `<h3>` represents sub-subheadings, and so on.

- What are some uses for the `<sup> and <sub>` elements?  
You will occasionally need to use superscript and subscript when marking up items like dates, chemical formulae, and mathematical equations so they have the correct meaning. The <sup> and <sub> elements handle this job. For example:  

```html
<p>My birthday is on the 25<sup>th</sup> of May 2001.</p>
<p>
  Caffeine's chemical formula is
  C<sub>8</sub>H<sub>10</sub>N<sub>4</sub>O<sub>2</sub>.
</p>
<p>If x<sup>2</sup> is 9, x must equal 3 or -3.</p>  
```

- When using the `<abbr>` element, what attribute must be added to provide the full expansion of the term?  
Another fairly common element you'll meet when looking around the Web is <abbr> — this is used to wrap around an abbreviation or acronym. When including either, provide a full expansion of the term in plain text on first use, along with the <abbr> to mark up the abbreviation. This provides a hint to user agents on how to announce/display the content while informing all users what the abbreviation means.  

```html
<p>
  We use <abbr>HTML</abbr>, Hypertext Markup Language, to structure our web
  documents.
</p>
```

If providing the expansion in addition to the abbreviation makes little sense, and the abbreviation or acronym is a fairly shortened term, provide the full expansion of the term as the value of title attribute:  

```html
<p>
  I think <abbr title="Reverend">Rev.</abbr> Green did it in the kitchen with
  the chainsaw.
</p>
```

### How CSS Is Structured  

1. What are ways we can apply CSS to our HTML?  
External stylesheet, Internal stylesheet and Inline styles.  

2. Why should we avoid using inline styles?  
It is the opposite of a best practice. First, it is the least efficient implementation of CSS for maintenance. One styling change might require multiple edits within a single web page. Second, inline CSS also mixes (CSS) presentational code with HTML and content, making everything more difficult to read and understand. Separating code and content makes maintenance easier for all who work on the website.

3. Review the block of code below and answer the following questions:  

```css
h2 {
     color: black;
     padding: 5px;
   }
```

    1. What is representing the selector?  
    A selector targets HTML to apply styles to content. Each CSS rule starts with a selector — or a list of selectors — in order to tell the browser which element or elements the rules should apply to.  

    ```css
    h1
    a:link
    .manythings
    #onething
    *
    .box p
    .box p:first-child
    h1, h2, .intro
    ```

    2. Which components are the CSS declarations?  
    When a property is paired with a value, this pairing is called a CSS declaration. CSS declarations are found within CSS Declaration Blocks. In the example below, highlighting identifies the CSS declaration block. Inline styles are CSS declarations that affect a single HTML element, contained within a style attribute. 

    3. Which components are considered properties?  
    Some properties like font, background, padding, border, and margin are called shorthand properties. This is because shorthand properties set several values in a single line.  

### Javascript

1. An if statement checks a ***condition*** and if it evaluates to ***run if condition is true***, then the code block will execute.  

2. What is the use of an else if?  
There is a way to chain on extra choices/outcomes to your if...else — using else if.

```js
if (choice === "sunny") {
    para.textContent =
      "It is nice and sunny outside today. Wear shorts! Go to the beach, or the park, and get an ice cream.";
  } else if (choice === "rainy") {
    para.textContent =
      "Rain is falling outside; take a rain coat and an umbrella, and don't stay out for too long.";
   else {
    para.textContent = "";
  }
}
```

3. List 3 different types of comparison operators.

```js
=== and !== — test if one value is identical to, or not identical to, another.
< and > — test if one value is less than or greater than another.
<= and >= — test if one value is less than or equal to, or greater than or equal to, another.
```

4. What is the difference between the logical operator && and ||?  

- && — AND; allows you to chain together two or more expressions so that all of them have to individually evaluate to true for the whole expression to return true.  
- || — OR; allows you to chain together two or more expressions so that one or more of them have to individually evaluate to true for the whole expression to return true.  

## Things I want to know more about

- How to use API using Javascript
- How to read files using Javascript

### Lab: Class 02  

- Github: Create a project: About Me
- Github: Code > HTTPS > copy
- Terminal: cd ~/Desktop/BootCamp/Projects
- Terminal: git clone <https://github.com/VMO2020/about-me.git>
- Terminal: cd about-me
- Terminal: code .

[REPO](https://github.com/VMO2020/about-me/blob/main/README.md)
