# Class 102 - 03 GIT & GITHUB

### section list

- Review: Class 03 - Revisions and the Cloud
- Lab: 03 - Revisions and the Cloud
- Read: 03 - Revisions and the Cloud

#### Section Questions & Answers

1. What is Version Control?  

Version Control is a system that allows you to revisit various versions of a file or set of files by recording changes. Through version control, one can revert a file or project to a previous version, track modifications and modifying individuals, and compare changes. By utilizing a Version Control System (VCS), mistakes with files can easily be rectified.  

2. What is cloning in Git?  

Create a copy of an existing Git repository from a particular server by using the clone command with a repository’s URL:  

```git
 git clone https://github.com/test
```

3. What is the command to track and stage files?  

```git
Single file: git add filename
All files: git add .
```

4. What is the command to take a snapshot of your changed files?  
After staging one or multiple files, you should commit the changes and record what you did within the commit message:  

```git
 git commit -m “made change x,y,z”
 ```

5. What is the command to send your changed files to Github?  
git push, you would push changes to a remote repository.  

```git
git push origin master
```

6. What is git status?  
Used to determine the state of files, utilize the git status command:  

```git
 git status
 ```

### Quiz

1-  Benefits of use GIT?
Answer:  

- Allows you to track revision
- Reduce risk of data loss
- Git enables collaboration between multiple developers
- Git is community website

2-  Commite message should contain?  
Answer:  A brief explanation of WHY you made the changes you are committing.

3-  Git commands order?  
Answer:  add/commit/push

4-  What is your GIT version?  
Answer:  2.16 or higher.  

5-  What is GITHUB?  
Answer:  It is a collaborate website, powered by GIT.
