# Class 102 - 02 Text Editor and Terminals command line

### section list

- Lab: 02 - The Coder's Computer
- Read: 02 - The Coder's Computer
- Review: Class 02 - Computer Config

#### Section Questions & Answers

1. What are four important features to look for in a text editor?  
A text editor is a piece of software that you download and install on
your computer, or you access online through your web browser, that
allows you to write and manage text, especially the text that you write
to build a web site. The text editor has to be one of the most
important tools you can use as an aspiring web developer.  

When I first started out learning about web development, one of the
things that I felt compelled to do was to download a text editor. I
figured that I was going to be writing a good deal of code, and a good
text editor should help me do that.  

2. What do the following commands do?  
pwd:    Where we are, stands for Print Working Directory.
ls:     What is in our current location,  It's short for list.  
cd:     In order to move around in the system we use a command called cd which stands for change directory.  
mkdir:  Create a new Folder
touch:  Create a new file  

3. Can you explain what is happening in the following scenario if these commands and arguments are entered into the command line? (Arguments are extra instructions given to a command.)  
cd projects: Change to directory "projects"  
mkdir new-project: Create a new folder "new-project"  
touch new-project/newfile.md : Create a  new file "newfile.md" inside "new-project" folder.  
cd ..  : Go back directory
ls projects/new-project: Show a list of content inside "new-project" folder, that is inside "projects" folder.

### Quiz (5/5)

1. Benefits to use a good text editor?  
Answer:  

- Extensions  
- Syntax highlighting  
- Code completation  

2. Select the correct process to get the list of content inside the code102 folder, which is inside the codefellos folder, by going to the root directory:  
Answer:  

- a  

```
cd ~  
cd codefellows  
cd code102  
ls -la
```

- b  

```
cd~/codefellows/code102  
ls -al
```

- c  

```
ls -la~/codefellow/code102
```

3. What is your NODE version?  
Answer:  10 and higher

4. What is tree?  
Answer:  visual layout

5. What is your NPM version?  
Answer:  6 or higher
