# Class 102 - 06  

### Section list  

1- Read: 06 - Dynamic web pages with JavaScript

2- Lab: 06 - Activate web pages with JavaScript

3- Review: Class 06 - Dynamic web pages with JavaScript

### Section Questions & Answers

1- What are variables in JavaScript?  
   A variable is a container for a value, like a number we might use in a sum, or a string that we might use as part of a sentence.

2- What does it mean to declare a variable?  
   To use a variable, you've first got to create it — more accurately, we call this declaring the variable. To do this, we type the keyword let followed by the name you want to call your variable:

```js
let myName;
let myAge;
```

3- What is an “assignment” operator, and what does it do?  
   Assignment operators are operators that assign a value to a variable. We have already used the most basic one, =, loads of times — it assigns the variable on the left the value stated on the right:

```js
let x = 3; // x contains the value 3
let y = 4; // y contains the value 4
x = y; // x now contains the same value y contains, 4
```

4- What is information received from the user called?  
   Events. For example, if the user clicks a button on a webpage, you might want to react to that action by displaying an information box.
   Objects that can fire events have an addEventListener() method, and this is the recommended mechanism for adding event handlers.

### Quiz (5/5)

1- What is JavaScript?
Answer: JavaScript is an asynchronous, dynamically-typed, interpreted scripting language, designed to make web pages dynamic and interactive.  

2- Consider the following JavaScript code, Which of the following conditional statements will resolve to `true`?

```js
let a = 42;
let b = '42';
```

Answer:  a == b

3-Which of the following is a properly formatted JavaScript conditional statement, assuming all the variables are already declared?
Answer:

```js
if (a - b > 0) {
  val = a - b;
} else {
  val = b - a;
} 
```

4- In JavaScript, what is a variable?
Answer: A variable is a way to programmatically reference a previously assigned value.  

5- Match each JavaScript literal value with its data type.  
Answer:
'93' string
93 number
true boolean
'two' string
4 + '2' string

[NEW Cookie Shop Web Link](https://vmo2020.github.io/cookies-stand/)
