# Class 102 - 08

### Section list  

1- Read: 08 - Operators and Loops

2- Lab: 08 - Operators and Loops

3- Review: Class 08 - Operators and Loops

### Section Questions & Answers

1- What is an expression in JavaScript?  
An expression is any valid set of literals, variables, operators, and expressions that evaluates to a single value. The value may be a number, a string, or a logical value. Conceptually, there are two types of expressions: those that assign a value to a variable, and those that simply have a value.  

2- Why would we use a loop in our code?  
Loops offer a quick and easy way to do something repeatedly.  
You can think of a loop as a computerized version of the game where you tell someone to take X steps in one direction, then Y steps in another. For example, the idea "Go five steps to the east" could be expressed this way as a loop:  

 ```js
for (let step = 0; step < 5; step++) {
  // Runs 5 times, with values of step 0 through 4.
  console.log("Walking east one step");
}

```  

3- When does a for loop stop executing?  
The condition expression is evaluated. If the value of condition is false, the loop stop executing.  
A for loop repeats until a specified condition evaluates to false.  

4- How many times will a while loop execute?  
It depends on the configuration of the loop counters.  
The condition expression is evaluated. If the value of condition is true, the loop statements execute. Otherwise, the for loop terminates. 

### Quiz

1-  Which of the following is invalid JavaScript code, and would result in a syntax error?  
Answer:  
```js
for ( i = 1 to 5 ) {
  console.log(i);
}
```  

2-  Pick the optimal type of loop to utilize for each of the following use-cases.
Answer:  

- Ensuring a user has entered a numeric value: **A while loop**  

```js
let number = null;

while (typeof(number) !== 'number') {
  number = parseInt(prompt('Please enter a number'));
}

console.log(`The number you entered is ${number}`);
```

- Restricting access until a correct password is entered: **A while loop**

```js
const password = 'secret';
let userInput = '';

while (userInput !== password) {
  userInput = prompt('Please enter the password');
}

alert('Access granted!');
```

- Showing each of the products in a shopping cart: **A for loop**  

```js
const shoppingCart = ['product1', 'product2', 'product3'];

for (let i = 0; i < shoppingCart.length; i++) {
  console.log(`Product ${i + 1}: ${shoppingCart[i]}`);
}
```

- Displaying all the books on a digital bookshelf: **A for loop**  

```js
const bookshelf = ['book1', 'book2', 'book3'];

for (let book of bookshelf) {
  console.log(book);
}
```

3-  Which code example is a correctly-written JavaScript `while` loop?  
Answer:  

```js
let answer = ''; 
while (answer !== 'S3kreT P455w0rD') {
  answer = prompt('Enter the passphrase to proceed...');
}
```  

4- Which `for` loop will have the most iterations?
Answer:  

```js
for (let i = 0; i <= 8; i++) {
  console.log(i);
}
```  

5-  Which `while` loop will have the most iterations?
Answer:  

```js
let i = 0;
while( i <= 10 ) {
  console.log(i);
  i++;
}
````
